#Makefile

A makefile is a file (by default named "Makefile") containing a set of directives used by a make build automation tool to generate a target/goal.

The easiest way to use makefiles is to use linux OS and type
    
    $ make
    
at the directory where your makefile is

To run makefile in windows you must install **nmake** utility. So better use Linux :D

##Rules

A makefile consists of “rules” in the following form:

    target: dependencies
        system command(s)

A target is usually the name of a file that is generated by a program; examples of targets are executable or object files. A target can also be the name of an action to carry out, such as "clean".

A dependency (also called prerequisite) is a file that is used as input to create the target. A target often depends on several files. However, the rule that specifies a recipe for the target need not have any prerequisites. For example, the rule containing the delete command associated with the target "clean" does not have prerequisites.

The system command(s) (also called recipe) is an action that make carries out. A recipe may have more than one command, either on the same line or each on its own line. Note the use of meaningful indentation in specifying commands; also note that the indentation must consist of a single <tab> character.


For Golang the easiest example is:

    all: get
    
    get:
        go get -u gopkg.in/alecthomas/gometalinter.v2
        
When you type at the console
    
    make get
    
make file will do command that is in the ge statement

If you type just 
    
    make
it will do all the commands that are written in the "all"